Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language allows us to give instructions to a computer.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.JDK stands for Java Development Kit.
It is composed of:
JRE - Java Runtime Environment
Compiler - Translates source code into bytecode.
Debugger - This is for debugging and inspection of code.

What is IDE?
A.Integrated Development Environment.
This is where the source code is written.


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Popular IDEs include: Eclipse, IntelliJ, and Netbeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Source code is initially written in an IDE. The source code is then transferred into byte code via the Java Compiler.
Next, the JVM which includes a JIT compiler executes the bytecode. This process of transferring source code into bytecode
allows java code to be run on many platforms.

what is class?
A. A class is a blueprint of an object.

What is object?
A.An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. The entry point of an application is the main method.

Why main is static?
A. Before any objects are made it is called by the JVM.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The object(java.lang.object) class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath
is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path of classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. In an interface you can only declare methods. In an abstracy class you can implement non-abstract
methods and declare abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No. You can instantiate the subclasses.

what is Access Specifier?
A. Can be public, private, or protected. The access specifier determines the level of access to classes, methods,
fields, and constructors.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP stands for object oriented programming. It includes: abstraction, polymorphism, encapsulation, and inheritance.
Abstraction is the hiding of implementation.
Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms.
Encapsulation is data hiding.
Inheritance allows a class to inherit all of the characteristics of a parent class.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. It is used to group related classes. The class name is imported by default if you omit the package statement.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API stands for Application programming interface. BufferedReader API, String API, and Scanner API

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.No, because it leads to overriding of methods when both extended classes have a same method name.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Method overloading happens in compile time. Allows for multiple methods, sharing a common name.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Exceptions are a disruption in the execution of a program. This can be handled by the use of a try/catch block.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. It allows variables and methods to be accessed without the instantiation of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. By using final variables and methods are considered final, they cannot be changed.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final makes variables and methods unchangeable. Finally places important code this code will be executed
with or without exception handling. Finalize is used as clean up prior to garbage collection.

What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor is a method that initializes an object of a class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.Yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.A default constructor will be generated by the compiler.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Reference to a method or constructor being used.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. A reference to a super class object.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A.No

What version of java are you using?
A. 1.8.0_201

What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JVM runs the bytecode, JDK is what you need to compiler the java source code.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM runs the bytecode, JRE runs the java programs.

What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time is the time when the code is being compiled. Run time is when the program is being run.

What is heap?
A. This is where memory from classes and arrays is stored.

How java manage it's memory?
A. Using the heap.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. A String can't be changed once created. String Buffer can be changed. StringBuilder is similar to StringBuffer except
for the fact that is it not thread safe.

What is Singleton class?
A. In OOP a singleton class is a class that can only have one object at a time. Uses a private constructor and static
method with the return type of Singleton Class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is the process on converting an object to a sequence of bytes that is sent into a database.
Deserialization is the opposite process.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.Its used to indicate that serialization process of such a class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent
byte stream for any instance of that class.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. In do..while the block of code is executed at least once, even if the condition given is false.
In while loop the condition is first tested and then the block of code is executed if the test result is true.

What is Enum?
A. It is used to define collections of constants.

What is Iterator?
A. Iterator takes the place of Enum in the java collections framework.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. String is immutable in java to avoid risk of a serious security issue.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Calling on constructor from another. This cvan be done using keywords like, "this" and "super."

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial garbage collector is for simple single threaded environments and small heaps.
Parallel Garbage Collector comes with the JVM and can process multiple threads.

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just In Time (Compiler)

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Heap space is used when creating an object. When an object is garbage collected it is sent back into the Heap space.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. Java comes with an automatic garbage collector.


What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Stacks are used to store memory for local variables. Heap memory is used to store objects.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Java reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the
classes, methods, interfaces, fields at compile time.

what is multithreading in java?
A. It provides simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum utilize the CPU time.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. To provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.

What is Framework?
A. An abstraction in which software providing generic functionality can be selectively changed by addition user-written
code.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









